# water-quality-qualification
we Rohit moon,Mohammad Umar have developed the project named " water quality qualification using decision trees"

# Project Description
This project is titled “A CLASSIFICATION MODEL FOR WATER QUALITY ANALYSIS USING DECISION TREE” In industries, improper quality of water may cause hazards and severe economic loss. Thus, the quality of water is very important in both environmental and economic aspects. Thus, water quality analysis is essential for using it in any purpose. The data analysis tool used in this study is WEKA which is a data mining software developed by the University of Waikato in New Zealand that apparatus data mining algorithms using the JAVA language. Weka is a milestone in the history of the data mining and machine learning research communities, because it is the only toolkit that has gained such widespread adoption.	

# Abstract
A classification algorithm is used to assign predefined classes to test instances for evaluation) or future instances to an application). This study presents a Classification model using decision tree for the purpose of analyzing water quality data from different counties in Kenya. The water quality is very important in ensuring citizens get to drink clean water. Application of decision tree as a data mining method to predict clean water based on the water quality parameters can ease the work of the laboratory technologist by predicting which water samples should proceed to the next step of analysis. The secondary data from Kenya Water institute was used for creation of this model. The data model was implemented in WEKA software. Classification using decision tree was applied to classify /predict the clean and not clean water. The analysis of water Alkalinity level and conductivity can play a major role in assessing water quality. Five decision tree classifiers which are J48, LMT, Random forest, Hoeffding tree and Decision Stump were used to build the model and the accuracy compared. J48 decision tree had the highest accuracy of 94% with Decision Stump having the lowest accuracy of 83%.
